---
layout: post
title: 3 Years Ago
description: "It was three years ago that I put in my notice at my employer. A reflection piece."
category: articles
tags: [life, work]

---
> I am writing to inform you that I am resigning from my position and leaving the company.  This letter is to be considered my thirty days notice, with my last day of work being October 16th, 2009. 

Three years. 
<p>
Three years and a month ago, I stayed at work late to type up that letter in my office. Once everyone was gone, I slipped it under the door of the General Manager and slipped out. Three years ago today, I left my office for the last time, and a week later was the last time I stepped into either of the hotels I worked at, leaving behind business relationships, friendships, and a town I had called home for 13 years of my life. 

> I have learned a lot over the past three and a half years I have been working at the Best Western Gold Rush Inn and the High Country Inn, from the staff members, the General Managers, and from the management team at Northern Vision.  It has been a great experience for me, and I am thankful that I have been able to progress as far as I did.  I hope I have helped make the two hotels into the best properties in Whitehorse, and overcome the losses incurred from previous years.  I am sure the hotels will continue to succeed and surpass many of the marks we have set this year. 

It's strange for me to re-read this letter now, realizing that I have been separated from the hotels nearly as long as I worked there. I have far too many stories to share about my experiences there. The hotels basically changed my life. Starting off as a Front Desk agent working for Gold Nuggie Dougie to working with a colourful Turkish man to being a manager at two hotels in the city of Whitehorse. Not only did I learn a lot about the hotel business, but I learned a lot about life. 
<p>
When I first started at the hotel, I was the quietest man imaginable. I am still quiet now, but unbelievably quiet then. Working at the hotel really helped me become more confident with approaching people and making small talk - the one thing I am horrible at but can do a much better job with now. I learned how to create friendships once again, enjoy the nightlife, learned the difference between a good tequila and rum compared to a sub-par one, learned to love martinis and dress up as a man with a suit and tie. 
<p>
The hotels really created who I am right now. It is almost as if they acted as two hands, molding me over the years. When I grew too tall, they knocked me down again to rebuild me a bit differently to make me stronger in the end. 
<p>
Most people tend to think about graduating high school or University as the major shifts in their lives. While they were fun years, the three and a half years at the hotel easily surpass the experiences I had at Univeristy and high school. Leaving the hotel is a moment I will always remember, because when I left, I was not only moving on from the hotels start a new life for me, but I was about to witness a new life being born: my daughter. 
<p>
3 years ago, I made the toughest, most natural, and best decision I have ever made in my life. 